IOCTL(2)                  Linux Programmer's Manual                 IOCTL(2)



NAME
       ioctl - control device

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/ioctl.h>

       int ioctl(int d, int request, ...);

DESCRIPTION
       The  ioctl() function manipulates the underlying device parameters of
       special files.  In  particular,  many  operating  characteristics  of
       character  special  files  (e.g.,  terminals)  may be controlled with
       ioctl() requests.  The argument d must be an open file descriptor.

       The second argument is a device-dependent request  code.   The  third
       argument  is  an  untyped pointer to memory.  It's traditionally char
       *argp (from the days before void * was valid C), and will be so named
       for this discussion.

       An  ioctl()  request  has encoded in it whether the argument is an in
       parameter or out parameter, and the size  of  the  argument  argp  in
       bytes.   Macros and defines used in specifying an ioctl() request are
       located in the file <sys/ioctl.h>.

RETURN VALUE
       Usually, on success zero is returned.  A few ioctl() requests use the
       return value as an output parameter and return a nonnegative value on
       success.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

ERRORS
       EBADF  d is not a valid descriptor.

       EFAULT argp references an inaccessible memory area.

       EINVAL Request or argp is not valid.

       ENOTTY d is not associated with a character special device.

       ENOTTY The specified request does not apply to  the  kind  of  object
              that the descriptor d references.

CONFORMING TO
       No  single  standard.   Arguments,  returns, and semantics of ioctl()
       vary according to the device driver in question (the call is used  as
       a catch-all for operations that don't cleanly fit the UNIX stream I/O
       model).  See ioctl_list(2) for a list of many of  the  known  ioctl()
       calls.  The ioctl() function call appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.

NOTES
       In  order to use this call, one needs an open file descriptor.  Often
       the open(2) call has unwanted side effects, that can be avoided under
       Linux by giving it the O_NONBLOCK flag.

SEE ALSO
       execve(2), fcntl(2), ioctl_list(2), open(2), sd(4), tty(4)

COLOPHON
       This  page is part of release 3.35 of the Linux man-pages project.  A
       description of the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.



Linux                            2000-09-21                         IOCTL(2)
