GETSOCKOPT(2)             Linux Programmer's Manual             GETSOCKOPT(2)



NAME
       getsockopt, setsockopt - get and set options on sockets

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>          /* See NOTES */
       #include <sys/socket.h>

       int getsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      void *optval, socklen_t *optlen);
       int setsockopt(int sockfd, int level, int optname,
                      const void *optval, socklen_t optlen);

DESCRIPTION
       getsockopt()  and  setsockopt()  manipulate  options  for  the  socket
       referred to by the file descriptor sockfd.  Options may exist at  mul‐
       tiple protocol levels; they are always present at the uppermost socket
       level.

       When manipulating socket  options,  the  level  at  which  the  option
       resides  and  the name of the option must be specified.  To manipulate
       options at the sockets API level, level is  specified  as  SOL_SOCKET.
       To  manipulate  options  at any other level the protocol number of the
       appropriate protocol controlling the option is supplied.  For example,
       to  indicate  that an option is to be interpreted by the TCP protocol,
       level should be set to the protocol number of TCP; see getprotoent(3).

       The arguments optval and optlen are used to access option  values  for
       setsockopt().   For  getsockopt()  they identify a buffer in which the
       value for the requested option(s) are to be  returned.   For  getsock‐
       opt(),  optlen  is  a  value-result argument, initially containing the
       size of the buffer pointed to by optval, and  modified  on  return  to
       indicate the actual size of the value returned.  If no option value is
       to be supplied or returned, optval may be NULL.

       Optname and any specified options  are  passed  uninterpreted  to  the
       appropriate  protocol  module  for  interpretation.   The include file
       <sys/socket.h>  contains  definitions  for   socket   level   options,
       described  below.  Options at other protocol levels vary in format and
       name; consult the appropriate entries in section 4 of the manual.

       Most socket-level options utilize an int  argument  for  optval.   For
       setsockopt(),  the  argument  should  be  nonzero  to enable a boolean
       option, or zero if the option is to be disabled.

       For a description of the available socket options  see  socket(7)  and
       the appropriate protocol man pages.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is
       set appropriately.

ERRORS
       EBADF     The argument sockfd is not a valid descriptor.

       EFAULT    The address pointed to by optval is not in a valid  part  of
                 the process address space.  For getsockopt(), this error may
                 also be returned if optlen is not in a  valid  part  of  the
                 process address space.

       EINVAL    optlen  invalid  in  setsockopt().  In some cases this error
                 can also occur for an invalid value in optval (e.g., for the
                 IP_ADD_MEMBERSHIP option described in ip(7)).

       ENOPROTOOPT
                 The option is unknown at the level indicated.

       ENOTSOCK  The argument sockfd is a file, not a socket.

CONFORMING TO
       SVr4,   4.4BSD   (these   system  calls  first  appeared  in  4.2BSD),
       POSIX.1-2001.

NOTES
       POSIX.1-2001 does not require the inclusion of <sys/types.h>, and this
       header  file is not required on Linux.  However, some historical (BSD)
       implementations required this header file, and  portable  applications
       are probably wise to include it.

       The  optlen argument of getsockopt() and setsockopt() is in reality an
       int [*] (and this is what 4.x BSD and libc4  and  libc5  have).   Some
       POSIX confusion resulted in the present socklen_t, also used by glibc.
       See also accept(2).

BUGS
       Several of the socket options should be handled at lower levels of the
       system.

SEE ALSO
       ioctl(2),  socket(2), getprotoent(3), protocols(5), socket(7), tcp(7),
       unix(7)

COLOPHON
       This page is part of release 3.35 of the Linux man-pages  project.   A
       description  of the project, and information about reporting bugs, can
       be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.



Linux                             2008-12-03                    GETSOCKOPT(2)
